# Status update (September 2025)

Quick status update on the RISC OS 64 progress, since I posted last...

* The links on the repository have been updated with pages for individual modules, listing the features that those modules need to have and their current status.
* I'm happy with my implementation of the Debugger module now, and the live coding for that has finished. It's not quite as functional as the RISC OS Pyromaniac version / the riscos-disassemble Python package, but it's working ok for me.
* New `Conversions` module implementation which works.
* Most of the `Convert*` modules have now been built, though not tested in 64bit (they're not really important at this stage, but it's good to know they build!
* The `IconBorders` modules all build just fine.
* Problems I had with `RemotePrinterSupport` have now been fixed and it builds in 64bit.
* `ResourceFS` stub module is now complete, and obviously doesn't do much yet.
* `VideoTTX`, `VideoGuard` and `MimeMap` built for 64bit, although they're not tested and probably won't quite do what's expected.

And internally I've been updating my build environment to better handle certain cases that weren't working previously.

* The [RISC OS Build service](https://build.riscos.online) now has the ability to enable faster builds, using the host version of the tools - see https://asciinema.org/a/741270 for a simple run.
* Improved integration within the SublimeText editor - pressing command-B can now build things with AMU locally and highlight the errors inline in the file, or with the build service.
* Improvements to CMunge for 64bit interfaces that weren't quite right, and the -zerrors switch, that I had recently broken.

The most recent test run says that most of the modules and tools that are present in the repository at least load correctly:

* https://github.com/gerph/riscos64-status/actions/runs/17814204760

The progress for Phase 1 is looking pretty good now, with many components exceeding the original aims for this phase. Still 17 falling short, but they're probably going to be reletively easy to get to an appropriate state.

* https://github.com/gerph/riscos64-status/wiki/Progress

And the SystemVars module is one of those modules that I will be moving on to in the Live Coding sessions. I suspect this will be relatively easy to deal with, but there will almost certainly be some special cases to handle.

Anyhow that's where things are for me. You can always follow the repositories to see what's being done.

Again, if anyone wants to contribute to these, please speak up.

---

[Original post](https://www.riscosopen.org/forum/forums/13/topics/20027)
